{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.19041}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qc\ul\b\f0\fs56\lang9 PHP ASSIGNMENTS\par
\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\ulnone\b0\fs22 Assignment - 1\par
AIM : Learn to deal with echo/print statements, variables , comments and\par
operators in PHP.\par
1. Create a basic PHP arithmetic application that contain following:\par
a. Write your Class, Name, Aim and other details in using HTML or PHP comment\par
with today's date.\par
b. Create a 2 variable local & global.\par
c. Create one function as \ldblquote AirthOperation\rdblquote  and perform sum, subtraction, division,\par
modulos & multiplication using local & global variables.\par
d. Create another function as \ldblquote IncDecOperation\rdblquote  and perform pre / post increment\par
and decrement on values of global variables.\par
e. Create another function as \ldblquote stringconcat\rdblquote  and take 2 string values in variable and\par
concatenate them in one string. Ex: $v1=\rdblquote Working\rdblquote  $v2=\rdblquote with Php\rdblquote  then $output\par
= \ldblquote Working with Php\rdblquote\par
f. Call function according to need and print various outputs.\par
g. Also show the difference output with echo in single quotes & double quotes.\par
h. Use a reference variable ($$) to assign a sum value to be used in any other\par
operation.\par
POINT TO NOTE: echo and print are more or less the same. They are both used to output data to\par
the screen.\par
The differences are small: echo has no return value while print has a return value of 1 so it can be used in\par
expressions. echo can take multiple parameters (although such usage is rare) while print can take one\par
argument. echo is marginally faster than print.\par
The echo statement can be used with or without parentheses: echo or echo().\par
Sarvajanik University\par
PRACTICAL ASSIGNMENT\par
SY-SSP-SEM3-2023 (Batch-C)\par
Assignment - 2\par
\par
AIM : Learn to deal with arrays with functions in PHP.\par
Date: 12-08-23\par
Q1. create a transaction indexed array that has a \ldblquote balanceqty\rdblquote  as an element in it. Display the amount using a for\par
and foreach loop.\par
Example: array(200,5000,1000,50);\par
Q2. create a transaction associated array(multidimensional) that has \ldblquote orderedqty\rdblquote  , \ldblquote availableqty\rdblquote  , \ldblquote balanceqty\rdblquote\par
as a key and its orderqty value, availableqty value and balanceqty as value. Display all the elements in sorted\par
order of the highest balance of a quantity.\par
Example: array( \ldblquote Products1\rdblquote =>array(\par
 "orderedqty"=>20,\par
 "availableqty"=>8,\par
 "balanceqty"=>12.\par
 ),\par
 \ldblquote Products2\rdblquote =>array(\par
 "orderedqty"=>15,\par
 "availableqty"=>17,\par
 "balanceqty"=>2\par
 ) );\par
For sorting on \ldblquote KEY\rdblquote  use function : The ksort() function sorts an associative array in ascending order, according to\par
the key.\par
The krsort() function sorts an associative array in descending order, according to the key.\par
SYNTAX : ksort(array);\par
SYNTAX : krsort(array);\par
For sorting on \ldblquote VALUE\rdblquote  use function: The asort() function sorts an associative array in ascending order, according\par
to the value.\par
Use the arsort() function to sort an associative array in descending order, according to the value.\par
SYNTAX: asort(array);\par
SYNTAX: arsort(array);\par
Q3. above question-2 , remove the \ldblquote balanceqty\rdblquote  field value and calculate balanceqty value by deducting\par
orderedqty from availableqty value and storing \ldblquote balanceqty\rdblquote  in a new array. Display the same new array\par
with balance quantity.\par
HINT Q3:\par
$new_transactions = array();\par
foreach( $transactions as $transaction ) \{\par
 $new_transaction = $transaction;\par
 $new_transaction[ "amount" ] = abs( $transaction[ "debit" ] -\par
$transaction[ "credit" ] );\par
 $new_transactions[] = $new_transaction;\par
\}\par
$transactions = $new_transactions;\par
Assignment - 3\par
AIM : Work with Forms and Database with OOP crud operations in PHP.\par
Date:\par
Q1. create an ProjectListing application using forms do the following:\par
1. Create a login form and take input from the employee name and password. Before login\par
success, check whether the employee name contains only \ldblquote character\rdblquote  or not and\par
password length must be between \ldblquote 8\rdblquote  to \ldblquote 15\rdblquote . (perform validation).\par
2. If input data is \ldblquote OK\rdblquote  then, redirect to another page \ldblquote Dashboard\rdblquote  and display Employee\par
name (username) on that page using the \ldblquote POST\rdblquote  method.\par
3. On the \ldblquote Dashboard\rdblquote  page, create a hyperlink \ldblquote Project_Details\rdblquote  , \ldblquote Project_Status\rdblquote ,\par
\ldblquote Employee_Details\rdblquote .\par
4. Create a database \ldblquote E-Project\rdblquote  with following tables : \ldblquote Project_details\rdblquote , \ldblquote Emp_details\rdblquote ,\par
\ldblquote Emp_proj_details\rdblquote .\par
a. Project_details table : ProjID (PK-autogenerate) , ProjType (values: webapp,\par
mobileapp, desktopapp), ProjTitle, ProjBudget, ProjLastDate.\par
b. Emp_details table: EmpNo (PK-autogenerate), EmpEmail, EmpType\par
(projmanager or regemp) , EmpName, EmpcontactNo, EmpJoinDate,\par
EmpWorkType (Remote or InComp).\par
c. Emp_proj_details: EPKEY (PK-autogenerate-combination of character &\par
number, Ex: EP1, EP2), ProjID (FK ), Status (Complete, Pending, Ongoing),\par
EmpNo (FK), CompletionDate.\par
5. While clicking on hyperlink \ldblquote Project_details\rdblquote  : create a page to add the details of the\par
project with all fields and insert data to table project_details.\par
6. Display all Project Details from its table.\par
7. Note: kindly enter all data manually in the Emp_details table.\par
8. While clicking on hyperlink \ldblquote Project_Status\rdblquote  : create a page to add employee project\par
details with all fields in the table and insert the same.\par
(note : load all project titles in dropdown from project_details table and then select one\par
and insert the same in column projID in Emp_proj_details table. Do the same for EmpNo.)\par
9. Display all data from the Emp_proj_details table.\par
Assignment 4: In Continuation of Assignment-3\par
1. On the \ldblquote Dashboard\rdblquote  page, create a hyperlink \ldblquote EmpProfile\rdblquote  and redirect to\par
\ldblquote Profileview\rdblquote  page and fetch (display) employee basic information such as\par
EmpName, EmpContactNo, EmpEmail-id, EmpWorkType and EmpType.\par
2. Create a hyperlink or button (with radio) for editing an employee profile\par
details(on view page). Load all profile information to controls on the next page.\par
3. After editing profile information redirect to profile view page.\par
4. Create a hyperlink or button (with checkbox) for record deletion from table.\par
5. take an input of the employee photo on the \ldblquote profile view\rdblquote  page (hint: create\par
a folder before image upload operation). If image upload is successful then display\par
the message \ldblquote uploaded successfully\rdblquote . Display the employee photo on the\par
\ldblquote Dashboard\rdblquote  page.\par
Note: All operations must be implemented using the OOP concept only.\par
Assignment - 5\par
AIM : create a php program that handles strings by creating different\par
functions in PHP.\par
Date:\par
1. Take a string of email-id of the user and extract only username from emailid. Display the same as output. (hint: use strstr function)\par
2. Write a program that takes any string as input and generates a random\par
password for that string. (hint: use substr and str_shuffle function). Display\par
the random password as an output.\par
3. Convert the string \ldblquote 1234567\rdblquote  into chunks \ldblquote 12 34 56 7\rdblquote  and display the\par
output. (hint: use substr and chunk_split)\par
4. Convert the first letter of all words to uppercase by taking any string as\par
input. (hint: use ucwords function)\par
5. Take an indexed array and find the shortest or longest length of string in the\par
array. (hint: use array_map and strlen function).\par
Assignment - 6\par
AIM : Work with Website that handles operation using Ajax and mysql in PHP\par
Q1. Create a search application from the Employee_Project_details table. Create a form which\par
takes ProjTitle as input from the employee and selected ProjTitle will display all detailed\par
information on the page using ajax with mysql.\par
Example as below:\par
Q2. Do add three more columns in table \ldblquote Emp details\rdblquote  (Assignment-3): EmpState , EmpCity and\par
EmpArea. Kindly add a few records in the table directly using the \ldblquote insert\rdblquote  tab of mysql.\par
Now based on EmpState selection from \ldblquote FORM input\rdblquote , do load EmpCity data from table and\par
base on EmpCity selected ,load EmpArea table and display the selected data using Ajax.\par
}
 